Avo mc patch 2 (#78)
vinegarhq/vinegarhq.github.io: src/Troubleshooting/index.md

#### White Screen

This specific problem can be the same as many other root causes, a common one is your system missing the graphics libraries required for Wine; you can check [Lutris Docs: Installing Drivers](https://github.com/lutris/docs/blob/master/InstallingDrivers.md) out for more information.

This may also indicate your GPU not supporting Vulkan or not supporting modern Vulkan; Use the OpenGL renderer, or set the installed DXVK version to one which includes a legacy version of Vulkan that your GPU supports.

#### Make sure there are no stale wineservers running

There are multiple reasons why this'd occur, but `vinegar kill` will suffice in order to fix the issue.

#### Roblox Studio stuck on the splash

This usually happens due to issues with the DPI. In order to fix it, set your DPI to 97 by running `vinegar exec winecfg` to open the wine configuration, and then heading to the Graphics tab. You should be able to find a DPI option at the bottom of the page.

> The only downside of this is that the Roblox fonts will be a bit blurry. You could try setting it to an even number larger than 96, but this'd cause in a bigger interface within wine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A DPI greater than 96 could be set, but this causes in-game GUIs to be larger than normal. Also, because of a Wine issue, using a non-default DPI will cause the Roblox viewport to be a bit blurry. Additionally, make sure that the DPI is an even number, otherwise GUIs will be blurry.
```

#### Unable to log in through the Studio or Player apps

> This occurs due to Webview2 issues with wine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This occurs due to WebView2 issues with Wine.
```

There are 2 workarounds:

> - Quick Login (Player): Click on "Log in with another device", and simply enter the code that displays on your screen through another device (or the website).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Quick Login (Player): Click on "Log in with another device", and enter the code displayed on the other device/website.
```

  
- Website (Player and Studio): Log in through the [Roblox website](https://roblox.com) and launch/edit an experience.

#### "Your GPU is incompatible" error when launching Roblox Studio

> This issue is most commonly caused by your wine build not having the Vulkan ChildWindow patch applied. To fix it, you could either:
> 
> - Use a Wine build that has the ChildWindow patch enabled (such as [Wine GE](https://github.com/GloriousEggroll/wine-ge-custom)).
> 
> - Disable DXVK in the Vinegar configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This issue is most commonly caused by the Wine build not having the Vulkan ChildWindow patch applied. To fix it:

- Use a Wine build that has the ChildWindow patch enabled (such as [Wine GE](https://github.com/GloriousEggroll/wine-ge-custom)), or:

- Disable DXVK in the Vinegar configuration.
```

> 
> - Use a Wine build that has the ChildWindow patch enabled (such as [Wine GE](https://github.com/GloriousEggroll/wine-ge-custom)), or:
> 
> - Disable DXVK in the Vinegar configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use the [Vinegar flatpak](https://vinegarhq.github.io/Installation/guides/flatpak.html), which includes the ChildWindow patch,

- Use a Wine build that has the ChildWindow patch enabled (such as [Wine GE](https://github.com/GloriousEggroll/wine-ge-custom)), or:

- Disable DXVK in the Vinegar configuration.
```

Reviewer 2: The flatpak has the childwindow patch. Document this.

#### Memory Dump

> This is because of a  [commit](https://gitlab.winehq.org/wine/wine/-/commit/ea640f6cece7660ffc853b7d574fbe52af34901a) (on Wine 8.16 and newer) causing Roblox to create a memory dump.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is because of [commit ea640f6c](https://gitlab.winehq.org/wine/wine/-/commit/ea640f6cece7660ffc853b7d574fbe52af34901a) (on Wine 8.16 and newer) causing Roblox to create a memory dump.
```

There are 2 workarounds:

- Using the [Vinegar flatpak](https://vinegarhq.github.io/Installation/guides/flatpak.html).

> - Using [Wine-GE](https://github.com/GloriousEggroll/wine-ge-custom/releases) or a patched build of wine with the above commit reverted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Using [Wine-GE](https://github.com/GloriousEggroll/wine-ge-custom/releases) or a patched build of Wine with the above commit reverted.
```

#### Buggy Roblox Studio fonts

> This is due to an incompatibility with `wined3d`, enabling DXVK in the configuration file should solve this issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is due to an incompatibility with WineD3D. Enabling DXVK in the configuration file should solve this issue.
```

#### Vulkan/Vulkan.h not found when compiling Vinegar

> Vulkan development headers are required for building Vinegar with splash support. They're usually a separate package in your distribution, for example: 
> - `vulkan-loader-dev` in Ubuntu.
> - `vulkan-loader-devel` in Fedora.
> - ` vulkan-devel` in arch-based distros.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vulkan development tools are required for building Vinegar with splash screen support. They're usually installed using a separate package, such as: 
- `vulkan-loader-dev` in Ubuntu.
- `vulkan-loader-devel` in Fedora.
- `vulkan-devel` in Arch-based distros.
```

> distribution that doesn't ship the development packages/tools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Distributions that don't ship the development packages/tools:
```
I think it looks better this way.

> You can also compile it using the following [Build Instructions](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Loader/blob/main/BUILD.md#building-on-linux) if you're on a distribution that doesn't ship the development packages/tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If using a distribution that doesn't ship the development packages, they may be compiled using the following guide: [Vulkan-Loader Build Instructions](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Loader/blob/main/BUILD.md#building-on-linux).
```

> If using a distribution that doesn't ship the development packages, they may be compiled using the following guide: [Vulkan-Loader Build Instructions](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Loader/blob/main/BUILD.md#building-on-linux).

Reviewer 2: @tacheometry Hmm, I know you dislike personal pronouns, but I think this phrase is really needing a "you're". It sounds weird otherwise. Maybe it should just be rewritten altogether?

Reviewer: It's fine with the "you're"

#### Shortcuts for Roblox App/Studio not appearing

> This usually happens with Vinegar Flatpak. The fix is to reboot your system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This usually happens with the Vinegar Flatpak. The fix is rebooting the system.
```

#### Stuttering and freezing (Nvidia GPU)

> Although stuttering can happen for many different reasons, it's a very common issue on NVIDIA. It seems that NVIDIA's drivers (on Wayland, also varies widely between cards of different generations) have major issues with stuttering and unexplainable frame locking in certain systems, but only if the window is fullscreen. This issue has been confirmed to exist for configurations where the NVIDIA GPU drives the display and ones where PRIME offload is used (IGPU drives the display, DGPU renders the game).
> 
> There's no known fix (as of 14th Oct. 2023), but the following workarounds might help depending on your system:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although stuttering can happen for many different reasons, it's a very common issue on Nvidia. It seems that Nvidia's drivers (on Wayland, also varies widely between cards of different generations) have major issues with stuttering and unexplainable frame locking in certain systems, but only if the window is fullscreen. This issue has been confirmed to exist for configurations where the Nvidia GPU drives the display and ones where PRIME offload is used (IGPU drives the display, DGPU renders the game).

There's no known fix (as of October 14th, 2023), but the following workarounds might help depending on the system:
```

- Switching to X11:

> Unfortunately, NVIDIA's drivers still have many Wayland/XWayland-only issues. Reverting to X11 might be the easiest fix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unfortunately, NVIDIA's drivers still have many Wayland/XWayland issues. Reverting to X11 might be the easiest fix.
```

> - Using integrated graphics (Only for systems with PRIME render offload):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Using integrated graphics (only for systems with PRIME render offload):
```

> Vinegar chooses your discrete graphics by default if you're using the Vulkan renderer (or have DXVK enabled). Configuring Vinegar to use your integrated graphics instead could potentially improve stability, at the cost of performance. To do this, add `MESA_VK_DEVICE_SELECT_FORCE_DEFAULT_DEVICE = "1"` to Vinegar's env configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vinegar chooses the discrete graphics by default if using the Vulkan or DXVK. Configuring Vinegar to use the integrated graphics instead could potentially improve stability, at the cost of performance. To achieve this, `MESA_VK_DEVICE_SELECT_FORCE_DEFAULT_DEVICE = "1"` may be added to Vinegar's env configuration.
```

> If the stutters are gone after you do this, they were being caused by NVIDIA's drivers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the stutters are gone after doing this, they were being caused by Nvidia's drivers.
```

- Disabling fullscreen:

> If none of the workarounds above work or apply to you, consider using Roblox windowed instead of fullscreen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If none of the workarounds above work or apply, consider using Roblox windowed instead of fullscreen.
```

> This specific problem can be the same as many other root causes, a common one is your graphics card not supporting Vulkan, or is missing the graphics libraries required for Wine; you can see [Lutris Docs: Installing Drivers](https://github.com/lutris/docs/blob/master/InstallingDrivers.md)
> 
> This may also be your GPU not supporting Vulkan or not supporting modern Vulkan; Use the OpenGL renderer, or set the installed DXVK version to one which includes a legacy version of Vulkan that your GPU supports.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This specific problem can be the same as many other root causes, a common one is your system missing the graphics libraries required for Wine; you can check [Lutris Docs: Installing Drivers](https://github.com/lutris/docs/blob/master/InstallingDrivers.md) out for more information.

This may also indicate your GPU not supporting Vulkan or not supporting modern Vulkan; Use the OpenGL renderer, or set the installed DXVK version to one which includes a legacy version of Vulkan that your GPU supports.
```

> #### "Make sure there are no stable wineservers running"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Make sure there are no stale wineservers running
```
No idea why this was in quotations. Also, this typo needs to be fixed.

> This is because it failed to run the ESync Shared Memory File, so you will manually have to kill the `wineserver`.
> 
> You need to end the `wineserver` process. Using System Monitor from many Desktop Environments, or TUI System Monitors like Btop.
> Or you can wait until the wineserver process will end.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The wineserver might hang under certain circumstances. If this happens, running `vinegar kill` should fix the issue.
```
Most of this information is superfluous.

> This is because it failed to run the ESync Shared Memory File, so you will manually have to kill the `wineserver`.
> 
> You need to end the `wineserver` process. Using System Monitor from many Desktop Environments, or TUI System Monitors like Btop.
> Or you can wait until the wineserver process will end.
> 
> If you want to make your life easier, you can also type `vinegar kill` in the terminal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The wineserver might hang under certain circumstances. If this happens, running `vinegar kill` should fix the issue.
```
The last line is the only thing that's actually useful.

> #### Roblox Studio stuck on Loading Screen

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Roblox Studio stuck on splashscreen
```
Self-explanatory. It's not an actual loading screen and we want to make sure readers don't confuse it with vinegar's loading screen.

> #### Roblox Studio stuck on Loading Screen
> 
> You need to set the DPI to 97. By executing the command `vinegar exec winecfg`, then open the Graphics section and you can change the DPI to 97.
> 
> The only downside of this is that the fonts for Roblox will be a bit blurry, an even number for the DPI would fix this issue, but Roblox will have a bigger interface on both Player and Studio.

Reviewer 3: Just remove this, the fix has been upstreamed.
```suggestion
```

> 
> #### WebView2 installer stuck on installing
> 
> Theres an unknown reason for how this error occured, so unfortunately we can't explain whats the issue. Luckily we do have the solution.
> 
> You must change the Windows Version to 7,
> You can set the Windows Version to 7 by executing the command `vinegar exec winecfg /v win7`. And WebView2 will successfully install.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

#### Cannot login to Studio or Player due to Verification System not working

This is because of the horrible way WebView2 runs on Wine, and it would just show a White Screen when the Verification System is trying to load.

Login to the [Roblox Website](https://roblox.com) and join a game from there, The login will be synced perfectly with Studio and Player.

#### "Your GPU is incompatible" error when launching Roblox Studio

Disable DXVK in the configuration file of Vinegar, Downside of this is that there will be less optimizations due to no Vulkan Optimizations.

> [Vinegar Docs: Setting Configuration File](https://vinegarhq.github.io/Configuration/index.html)

Reviewer 2: One of the most common causes for this issue is the user not having a childwindow patch applied in their wine build. 

We should probably point this out

> #### Memory Dump
> 
> This is because of a few patches (Wine 8.16 and newer) causing Roblox to create a memory dump.
> Here is the patch that caused this issue;
> [ntdll: Ignore attempts to change segment registers on x86-64](https://gitlab.winehq.org/wine/wine/-/commit/ea640f6cece7660ffc853b7d574fbe52af34901a)
> 
> To fix this, you can use the [Flatpak version of Vinegar](https://vinegarhq.github.io/Installation/guides/flatpak.html) or use [Wine-GE](https://github.com/GloriousEggroll/wine-ge-custom/releases) created by Glorious Eggroll setting as `wineroot` in Vinegar configuration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Memory Dump

This is because of a  [commit](https://gitlab.winehq.org/wine/wine/-/commit/ea640f6cece7660ffc853b7d574fbe52af34901a) (on Wine 8.16 and newer) causing Roblox to create a memory dump.

There are quite a few options to fix this:
- Using the [Vinegar flatpak](https://vinegarhq.github.io/Installation/guides/flatpak.html).
- Using [Wine-GE](https://github.com/GloriousEggroll/wine-ge-custom/releases) or a patched build of wine with the above commit reverted.
```

> #### Half of Roblox Studio fonts aren't appearing
> 
> This is due to an incompatibility with normal Wine D3D.
> You must allow DXVK in Studio to fix this issue.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Buggy Roblox Studio fonts

This is due to an incompatibility with `wined3d`, enabling DXVK should solve this issue.
```

#### How to use the Vinegar Patches

You can install the [Flatpak Version of Vinegar](https://vinegarhq.github.io/Installation/guides/flatpak.html) to allow the patches that makes Roblox Player/App to work under Wine 8.16 or newer.
If you are

> #### Vulkan/Vulkan.h not founded when compiling Vinegar

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Vulkan/Vulkan.h not found when compiling Vinegar
```

> 
> You can install the Devel Packages for Vulkan according to your Package Manager, For example;
> `sudo pacman -Sy vulkan-devel` for Arch and Arch-based distributions.
> 
> You can also compile it following the Instructions in the Website below;
> [Build Instructions](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Loader/blob/main/BUILD.md#building-on-linux)

Reviewer 3: Grammatical fixes, also using `-Sy` is a big nono.
```suggestion

You can install the development packages for Vulkan (package name highly depends on the distribution), for example:
`sudo pacman -S vulkan-devel` for Arch-based distributions.

You can also compile it using the following [Build Instructions](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Loader/blob/main/BUILD.md#building-on-linux) if you're on a distribution that doesn't ship the development packages/tools.
```

> You can install the Devel Packages for Vulkan according to your Package Manager, For example;
> `sudo pacman -Sy vulkan-devel` for Arch and Arch-based distributions.
> 
> You can also compile it following the Instructions in the Website below;
> [Build Instructions](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Loader/blob/main/BUILD.md#building-on-linux)
> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Vulkan development headers are required for building Vinegar with loading screen support. They're usually a separate package in your distribution, for example: 
- `vulkan-loader-dev` in Ubuntu.
- `vulkan-loader-devel` in Fedora.
- ` vulkan-devel` in arch-based distros.

You can still compile Vinegar even if your distro doesn't provide these headers, but you won't be able to build it with the loading screen functionality.

```
This isn't confusing and points users to a dead-end. I doubt someone who can't figure out what a missing header is will be able to properly compile vulkan-loader. Let's provide them with information which they can actually use...

#### Shortcuts for Roblox App/Studio not appearing

This only happens when you use the Flatpak Version of Vinegar. when you install any application via Flatpak, You can't launch it
The directories shown below;

'/var/lib/flatpak/exports/share'

'/home/example/.local/share/flatpak/exports/share'

are not in the search path set by the XDG_DATA_DIRS environment variable.

> The fix is to reboot your Desktop/Laptop.

Reviewer 2: I have no idea how to fix this, but this is a complete, total, utter mess. This paragraph needs to be rewritten entirely.

> The fix is to reboot your Desktop/Laptop.

Reviewer 2: I have no idea how to fix this, but this is a complete, total, utter mess. This paragraph needs to be rewritten entirely.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Roblox App/Studio applications not appearing

This seems to be a flatpak issue, the fix is to simply reboot.
```
Fixed it for you.

This issue is most commonly caused by the Wine build not having the Vulkan ChildWindow patch applied. To fix it:

- Use the [Vinegar flatpak](https://vinegarhq.github.io/Installation/guides/flatpak.html), which includes the ChildWindow patch,
  
- Use a Wine build that has the ChildWindow patch enabled (such as [Wine GE](https://github.com/GloriousEggroll/wine-ge-custom)), or:
  

> - Disable DXVK in the Vinegar configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This issue is most commonly caused by the Wine build not having the Vulkan ChildWindow patch applied. There are a couple solutions:

- Using the [Vinegar flatpak](https://vinegarhq.github.io/Installation/guides/flatpak.html), which includes the ChildWindow patch;

- Using a Wine build that has the ChildWindow patch enabled (such as [Wine GE](https://github.com/GloriousEggroll/wine-ge-custom));

- Disabling DXVK in the Vinegar configuration.
```
I think it's fine without the "or" now.

- `vulkan-devel` in Arch-based distros.

  
Distributions that don't ship the development packages/tools:

> If you're using a distribution that doesn't ship the development packages, they may be compiled using the following guide: [Vulkan-Loader Build Instructions](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Loader/blob/main/BUILD.md#building-on-linux).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** If you're using a distribution that doesn't ship the development packages, they may be compiled using the following guide: [Vulkan-Loader Build Instructions](https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Loader/blob/main/BUILD.md#building-on-linux).
```
This will show up in an infobox like on the following page: https://vinegarhq.github.io/Configuration/index.html#example-configuration
